As a high school dropout myself and now a mother of six, one child being a recent high school graduate, one just entering high school, and another soon to enter high school in a year with three others trailing behind, I often find myself reflecting on my high school years. Why was I so unmotivated to finish high school? What made me want to go back to school? The question it all comes down to is, what can be done to prevent high school students from losing motivation, detouring them from dropping out and not becoming just another statistic? Motivating high school students may seem like a daunting task; however, it is easier than we think by encouraging them, helping them acquire their own aspirations, and making school interesting. Students will not only meet graduation requirements, but they will feel a sense of accomplishment while doing it.
It is through the means of communication that I can share my values, thoughts, beliefs, feelings, and experiences with others. Face-to-face communication allows me to use both verbal and nonverbal cues, making it the richest and most powerful form of communication. According to Dobkin and Pace (2006), verbal communication consists of “messages expressed through a formal language, using oral, written, or signed words” (p. 14). Nonverbal communications are “messages expressed through symbols other than words, including hand gestures, facial expressions, touching, vocal inflection, and clothing” (Dobkin & Pace, 2006, p.14). The access to nonverbal cues in face-to-face communications creates bonding and adds intimacy to my personal relationships. Expressing love through touch or looking into someone’s eyes to display affection are examples of the power of nonverbal communication. Additionally, nonverbal cues decrease chances of misunderstanding in my interactions with others, and have a vital role in expressing my feelings and perceiving emotions in others.
A strategy that nursing should use to help in the effort to reduce health care cost inflation is quality improvement in the form of prevention. This prevention onus is on every nurse for eliminating all potential for injury due to medication errors. A truly comprehensive improvement program for medication error prevention can also reduce the risk of malpractice (Becher, 2001). Evidence is clear, as seen in integrated care delivery systems, that reducing medication error injuries has dramatically affected quality outcomes. Strategies for such improvement are most effective if each nurse takes on the personal responsibility to work and provide care with utmost ethics and safety. Mandatory continuing education and regular skills checks and updates in places of employment help nurses to keep functioning based on the safest and best standards.
In conclusion, we present ourselves through both face-to-face and online communication. Becoming a skilled communicator has a positive impact on our personal and social interactions. Ethical and effective communication becomes even more vital when our messages are conveyed around the globe electronically. By analyzing face-to-face and online communication skills, I identified my strengths and weaknesses and developed some ideas on how to improve my communication skills to become a more knowledgeable and skilled communicator. I plan to be an effective and ethical communicator by further educating myself in this area and practicing verbal, nonverbal, and active listening skills that I learned in the communication course.